# Contributing

## Features

- First open an issue describing the wanted feature
- Discuss and convince me :)

## Readme

Do edit the [README](./README.md) directly !

The readme is regularly generated by the following command

```sh
just build_readme
```

Edit the [template readme file](./resources/README_TEMPLATE.md) instead.
The [template file](./resources/TEMPLATE_DATA.toml) contains the paths from which data is inserted.
Data is inserted into so called placeholders like this `{{VERSION}}`.

There are following variable

- {{VERSION}} : version of the application. Coming from Cargo.toml.
- {{RUST_VERSION}} : Used rust version. Coming from Cargo.toml.
- {{ABOUT}} : Description what this application is doing. Coming from [about.txt](./resources/main_help/about.txt)
- {{MANUAL}} Documentation used in the CLI application itself. Coming from MANUAL.txt

## Format rules

Default configuration of rustfmt
Running this command verifies that

```sh
just format_check
``` 

## Used tools

A number of tools are used to maintain quality within the project.
The following tools should be installed if you are interested in contributing/maintaining this project.

- [just](https://github.com/casey/just) Command runner for routines for project automation
- [typos](https://crates.io/crates/typos) Checking for spelling errors
- [cargo insta](https://crates.io/crates/cargo-insta) Tool to review changes in snapshots for certain tests.


## Before every push or pull request 

There is no continuous integration so far.
However certain routines are in place to check the overall quality 
of the project. These routines should be run regularly and before any push 
or submitted pull request.

Run the following command for that

```sh
just ci
```

All routines are available in the [justfile](./justfile).

## Generation of the manual

The [manual](./MANUAL.txt) allows user to look up usage and examples online. 
This manual is auto generated by the following command

```sh
just generate_manual 
```

It appends all help pages of the entry point of the application and of all its subcommands
Every help page of subcommand includes examples.

